README.md, before:

# Sustainable Supply Chain Optimizer

Phase 1 Foundation - Python MCP Server with AWS Bedrock Integration

## Quick Start

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python mcp_server.py
```

## Test Data Generation

```bash
python test_mcp.py
```

## MCP Tools

- `generate_supply_chain_data` - Generate realistic supply chain data
- `analyze_suppliers` - Analyze supplier sustainability metrics

## AWS Integration

- **Bedrock Runtime**: Powers AI agents with Claude/Titan models
- **S3**: Data storage and retrieval
- **IAM**: Secure access management

## Phase 1 Complete ✅

- [x] MCP Server Structure
- [x] Agent Communication Protocol  
- [x] Data Generator Agent
- [x] Test with 20 suppliers, 30 routes, 15 products
- [x] Data quality validation

## Next: Phase 2 - Core Agents Implementation
# 🌱 Sustainable Supply Chain Optimizer

An AI-powered solution leveraging AWS Bedrock Agents to analyze and optimize supply chain sustainability across sourcing, logistics, inventory, and carbon accounting.

## 🎯 Overview

This solution provides comprehensive sustainability analysis through four specialized AI agents:
- **Sourcing Agent**: Analyzes supplier sustainability profiles and certifications
- **Logistics Agent**: Optimizes transportation routes for emission reduction  
- **Inventory Agent**: Generates waste reduction recommendations
- **Carbon Accounting Agent**: Calculates overall carbon footprint and benchmarking

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### **Agent Flow Architecture**
```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   MCP Server    │    │   Strands SDK    │    │   Agent Core    │
│   (Phase 1)     │───▶│   Integration    │───▶│   Orchestrator  │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│ Data Generator  │    │ Context Passing  │    │ Enhanced        │
│ Agent           │    │ & Error Handling │    │ Orchestration   │
│ - Suppliers     │    │ - Retry Logic    │    │ - Flow Control  │
│ - Routes        │    │ - Fallback Mode  │    │ - Result Agg    │
│ - Products      │    │ - Quality Check  │    │ - Metadata      │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                                               │
         └───────────────────────┬───────────────────────┘
                                 ▼
    ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │                    Core Analysis Agents                        │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
             │                │                │                │
             ▼                ▼                ▼                ▼
    ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐
    │ Sourcing Agent  │ │ Logistics Agent │ │ Inventory Agent │ │ Carbon Agent    │
    │ - Strands AI    │ │ - Strands       │ │ - Strands       │ │ - Strands       │
    │ - Sustainability│ │   Reasoning     │ │   Explanations  │ │   Insights      │
    │ - Risk Analysis │ │ - Route Optim   │ │ - Waste Reduce  │ │ - Footprint     │
    │ - Certifications│ │ - Emission Calc │ │ - Stock Optim   │ │ - Benchmarking  │
    └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘
             │                │                │                │
             └────────────────┬────────────────┬────────────────┘
                              ▼
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │ Executive       │
                    │ Summary &       │
                    │ Recommendations │
                    └─────────────────┘
```

### **AWS Cloud Architecture**
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                              AWS Cloud Environment                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Amazon S3     │    │   AWS Bedrock    │    │   AWS Lambda    │
│   - CSV Files   │───▶│   - Claude 3     │───▶│   - Agent       │
│   - Data Store  │    │   - AI Models    │    │     Orchestrator│
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   AWS Glue      │    │   Amazon API     │    │   Amazon IAM    │
│   - Data Catalog│    │   Gateway        │    │   - Roles       │
│   - ETL Jobs    │    │   - REST APIs    │    │   - Policies    │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         └───────────────────────┼───────────────────────┘
                                 ▼
              ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
              │        External Integrations       │
              │  ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐   │
              │  │ Strands SDK │ │ MCP Server  │   │
              │  │ - AI Engine │ │ - Protocol  │   │
              │  └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘   │
              └─────────────────────────────────────┘
                                 │
                                 ▼
              ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
              │           Client Access            │
              │  ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐   │
              │  │ REST API    │ │ Bedrock     │   │
              │  │ Endpoints   │ │ Agent Chat  │   │
              │  └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘   │
              └─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### **Data Flow Architecture**
```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│   Phase 1   │───▶│ Integration │───▶│   Phase 2   │───▶│   Results   │
│ Data Gen    │    │  Adapter    │    │  Analysis   │    │ Dashboard   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
      │                    │                    │                │
      ▼                    ▼                    ▼                ▼
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│ 20 Suppliers│    │ Format      │    │ Sourcing    │    │ Sustainability
│ 30 Routes   │    │ Conversion  │    │ Logistics   │    │ Score: 85/100
│ 15 Products │    │ Validation  │    │ Inventory   │    │ Grade: A     │
│ Realistic   │    │ Quality     │    │ Carbon      │    │ Recommendations
│ Data        │    │ Check       │    │ Accounting  │    │ & Insights   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+
- AWS Account with Bedrock access
- AWS CLI configured

### Installation

1. **Clone and Setup**
```bash
cd sustainable-supply-chain-optimizer
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. **Deploy to AWS Bedrock**
```bash
# Update account details in deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
python deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
```

3. **Run Local API Server**
```bash
python api_endpoint.py
```

4. **Test the Solution**
```bash
python test_api.py
```

## 📋 Sample Usage

### Via Bedrock Agent (Natural Language)
```
"Analyze the sustainability of my supply chain with 5 suppliers, 
10 transportation routes, and 20 inventory items. Focus on carbon 
footprint reduction and waste minimization."
```

### Via API Endpoint (with Authentication)
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/sustainability/analyze \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: strands_api_key_ai_hackathon" \
  -d '{
    "supply_chain_data": {
      "suppliers": [...],
      "routes": [...], 
      "inventory": [...]
    }
  }'
```

### Via Bedrock Agent Chat
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5001/bedrock/agent/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: strands_api_key_ai_hackathon" \
  -d '{
    "message": "Analyze sustainability for my supply chain"
  }'
```

## 🧪 Sample Test Prompts

### For Bedrock Agent Testing:

1. **Basic Analysis**
   ```
   "Please analyze my supply chain sustainability. I have 3 suppliers: 
   EcoTech (carbon footprint: 30 tons, ISO14001 certified), 
   GreenSupply (carbon footprint: 45 tons, no certifications), 
   and SustainableCorp (carbon footprint: 20 tons, FSC + ISO14001 certified)."
   ```

2. **Route Optimization**
   ```
   "Optimize my transportation routes for emissions. I have a 200km truck route 
   from Factory A to Warehouse B, and an 800km truck route from Supplier C to Factory A. 
   What are the best alternatives?"
   ```

3. **Inventory Waste Analysis**
   ```
   "Help reduce waste in my inventory. I have Widget A (500 units, 100/month demand, 
   180 days shelf life) and Component B (1200 units, 150/month demand, 365 days shelf life)."
   ```

4. **Complete Analysis**
   ```
   "Run a complete sustainability analysis on my supply chain including 
   supplier assessment, route optimization, inventory waste reduction, 
   and overall carbon footprint calculation."
   ```

## 📊 Output Examples

### Sustainability Score Breakdown
```json
{
  "overall_sustainability_score": 78.5,
  "sustainability_grade": "B",
  "total_carbon_footprint": 245.8,
  "footprint_breakdown": {
    "sourcing": 180.2,
    "logistics": 45.6, 
    "inventory_waste": 8.5,
    "operations": 11.5
  }
}
```

### Top Recommendations
```json
{
  "top_recommendations": [
    "Switch to rail transport for routes over 500km",
    "Implement supplier sustainability training program",
    "Reduce order quantity for Widget A by 30%",
    "Request carbon reduction plan from high-footprint suppliers"
  ]
}
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### AWS Resources Required
- **Bedrock Agent**: `sustainability-supply-chain-optimizer`
- **Lambda Function**: `sustainability-agents-orchestrator`
- **IAM Roles**: Bedrock execution role with Lambda invoke permissions

### Environment Variables
```bash
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=your-account-id
BEDROCK_AGENT_ID=your-agent-id
STRANDS_API_KEY=your-strands-api-key
BEDROCK_API_KEY=strands_api_key_ai_hackathon
```

## 📈 Key Features

### ✅ **Phase 1: Foundation**
- **MCP Server**: Model Context Protocol for agent communication
- **Data Generator Agent**: Creates 20 suppliers, 30 routes, 15 products
- **Base Agent Pattern**: Abstract class foundation for all agents
- **Strands Integration**: AI-powered company name generation

### ✅ **Phase 2 Step 1: Individual Agents**
- **Sourcing Agent**: Supplier sustainability scoring, certifications, risk assessment
- **Logistics Agent**: Multi-modal transport optimization, emission calculations
- **Inventory Agent**: Waste analysis, expiry risk, stock optimization
- **Carbon Accounting Agent**: Complete footprint aggregation, benchmarking

### ✅ **Phase 2 Step 2: Enhanced Orchestration**
- **Agent Communication Flow**: Sequential execution with context sharing
- **Context Management**: Shared data store for cross-agent insights
- **Error Handling & Retry**: Resilient execution with automatic recovery
- **Result Validation**: Data flow integrity checks and validation
- **Execution Monitoring**: Detailed timing and performance metrics

### ✅ **Strands SDK Integration**
- **Realistic Data Generation**: AI-powered company names and scenarios
- **Enhanced Analysis**: Strands reasoning for all sustainability decisions
- **Natural Language**: Human-readable explanations and insights
- **Fallback Mode**: Works with or without Strands SDK

### ✅ **AWS Cloud Integration**
- **Bedrock Agents**: Claude 3 Sonnet for AI capabilities
- **Lambda Functions**: Serverless agent orchestration
- **S3 & Glue**: CSV data ingestion and cataloging
- **API Gateway**: RESTful endpoints for external access

## 🧪 Testing

### Run All Tests
```bash
# Test individual agents
python test_agents.py

# Test Strands SDK integration
python test_strands_integration.py

# Test enhanced orchestration (Phase 2 Step 2)
python test_orchestration.py

# Test complete integration
python test_integration.py

# Test API endpoints with authentication
python test_api.py

# Test Bedrock authentication
python test_bedrock_auth.py

# Test Bedrock integration
python deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
```

### Phase 2 Step 2: Agent Orchestration Features
- **Context Passing**: Agents share results and context between executions
- **Error Handling**: Graceful failure handling with fallback mechanisms
- **Retry Logic**: Automatic retry for failed agent executions
- **Flow Control**: Sequential execution with dependency management
- **Result Aggregation**: Comprehensive result compilation with metadata

### API Endpoints
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /api/sustainability/test` - Test with sample data
- `POST /api/sustainability/analyze` - Full analysis

## 📝 Data Format

### Input Schema
```json
{
  "suppliers": [
    {
      "id": "SUP001",
      "name": "Supplier Name", 
      "carbon_footprint": 25,
      "certifications": ["ISO14001"],
      "renewable_energy_percent": 60
    }
  ],
  "routes": [
    {
      "id": "RT001",
      "origin": "Location A",
      "destination": "Location B", 
      "distance_km": 250,
      "transport_mode": "truck"
    }
  ],
  "inventory": [
    {
      "id": "PRD001",
      "name": "Product Name",
      "current_stock": 500,
      "monthly_demand": 100,
      "shelf_life_days": 180
    }
  ]
}
```

## 🎯 Business Impact

### **Quantified Benefits:**
- **30-40%** emission reduction through AI-powered route optimization
- **20-60%** waste reduction via intelligent inventory management
- **15-25%** supplier sustainability score improvement
- **Real-time** carbon footprint tracking and benchmarking

### **Technology Integration:**
- **Strands AI**: Enhanced decision-making across all agents
- **AWS Cloud**: Scalable, serverless architecture
- **MCP Protocol**: Standardized agent communication
- **Phase-based**: Modular development and deployment

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

### **Phase 3: Interface & Demo (Next)**
- Web dashboard with sustainability metrics
- Real-time charts and visualizations
- QR code deployment for demo access

### **Advanced Features:**
- Real-time ERP system integration
- Machine learning demand forecasting
- Blockchain supply chain transparency
- IoT sensor monitoring
- Mobile app for field operations

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:
1. Check the test files for usage examples
2. Review AWS Bedrock Agent logs
3. Validate input data format
4. Ensure proper AWS permissions

---

**Built for AI Hackathon - Sustainable Supply Chain Optimization**

Commit message:

feat(deploy): add containerization, deployment guide, AgentCore adapter scaffold

README.md, after:

# Sustainable Supply Chain Optimizer

Phase 1 Foundation - Python MCP Server with AWS Bedrock Integration

## Quick Start

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python mcp_server.py
```

## Test Data Generation

```bash
python test_mcp.py
```

## MCP Tools

- `generate_supply_chain_data` - Generate realistic supply chain data
- `analyze_suppliers` - Analyze supplier sustainability metrics

## AWS Integration

- **Bedrock Runtime**: Powers AI agents with Claude/Titan models
- **S3**: Data storage and retrieval
- **IAM**: Secure access management

## Phase 1 Complete ✅

- [x] MCP Server Structure
- [x] Agent Communication Protocol  
- [x] Data Generator Agent
- [x] Test with 20 suppliers, 30 routes, 15 products
- [x] Data quality validation

## Next: Phase 2 - Core Agents Implementation
# 🌱 Sustainable Supply Chain Optimizer

An AI-powered solution leveraging AWS Bedrock Agents to analyze and optimize supply chain sustainability across sourcing, logistics, inventory, and carbon accounting.

## 🎯 Overview

This solution provides comprehensive sustainability analysis through four specialized AI agents:
- **Sourcing Agent**: Analyzes supplier sustainability profiles and certifications
- **Logistics Agent**: Optimizes transportation routes for emission reduction  
- **Inventory Agent**: Generates waste reduction recommendations
- **Carbon Accounting Agent**: Calculates overall carbon footprint and benchmarking

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### **Agent Flow Architecture**
```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   MCP Server    │    │   Strands SDK    │    │   Agent Core    │
│   (Phase 1)     │───▶│   Integration    │───▶│   Orchestrator  │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│ Data Generator  │    │ Context Passing  │    │ Enhanced        │
│ Agent           │    │ & Error Handling │    │ Orchestration   │
│ - Suppliers     │    │ - Retry Logic    │    │ - Flow Control  │
│ - Routes        │    │ - Fallback Mode  │    │ - Result Agg    │
│ - Products      │    │ - Quality Check  │    │ - Metadata      │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                                               │
         └───────────────────────┬───────────────────────┘
                                 ▼
    ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │                    Core Analysis Agents                        │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
             │                │                │                │
             ▼                ▼                ▼                ▼
    ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐
    │ Sourcing Agent  │ │ Logistics Agent │ │ Inventory Agent │ │ Carbon Agent    │
    │ - Strands AI    │ │ - Strands       │ │ - Strands       │ │ - Strands       │
    │ - Sustainability│ │   Reasoning     │ │   Explanations  │ │   Insights      │
    │ - Risk Analysis │ │ - Route Optim   │ │ - Waste Reduce  │ │ - Footprint     │
    │ - Certifications│ │ - Emission Calc │ │ - Stock Optim   │ │ - Benchmarking  │
    └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘
             │                │                │                │
             └────────────────┬────────────────┬────────────────┘
                              ▼
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │ Executive       │
                    │ Summary &       │
                    │ Recommendations │
                    └─────────────────┘
```

### **AWS Cloud Architecture**
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                              AWS Cloud Environment                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Amazon S3     │    │   AWS Bedrock    │    │   AWS Lambda    │
│   - CSV Files   │───▶│   - Claude 3     │───▶│   - Agent       │
│   - Data Store  │    │   - AI Models    │    │     Orchestrator│
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   AWS Glue      │    │   Amazon API     │    │   Amazon IAM    │
│   - Data Catalog│    │   Gateway        │    │   - Roles       │
│   - ETL Jobs    │    │   - REST APIs    │    │   - Policies    │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         └───────────────────────┼───────────────────────┘
                                 ▼
              ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
              │        External Integrations       │
              │  ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐   │
              │  │ Strands SDK │ │ MCP Server  │   │
              │  │ - AI Engine │ │ - Protocol  │   │
              │  └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘   │
              └─────────────────────────────────────┘
                                 │
                                 ▼
              ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
              │           Client Access            │
              │  ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐   │
              │  │ REST API    │ │ Bedrock     │   │
              │  │ Endpoints   │ │ Agent Chat  │   │
              │  └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘   │
              └─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### **Data Flow Architecture**
```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│   Phase 1   │───▶│ Integration │───▶│   Phase 2   │───▶│   Results   │
│ Data Gen    │    │  Adapter    │    │  Analysis   │    │ Dashboard   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
      │                    │                    │                │
      ▼                    ▼                    ▼                ▼
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│ 20 Suppliers│    │ Format      │    │ Sourcing    │    │ Sustainability
│ 30 Routes   │    │ Conversion  │    │ Logistics   │    │ Score: 85/100
│ 15 Products │    │ Validation  │    │ Inventory   │    │ Grade: A     │
│ Realistic   │    │ Quality     │    │ Carbon      │    │ Recommendations
│ Data        │    │ Check       │    │ Accounting  │    │ & Insights   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+
- AWS Account with Bedrock access
- AWS CLI configured

### Installation

1. **Clone and Setup**
```bash
cd sustainable-supply-chain-optimizer
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. **Deploy to AWS Bedrock**
```bash
# Update account details in deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
python deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
```

3. **Run Local API Server**
```bash
python api_endpoint.py
```

4. **Test the Solution**
```bash
python test_api.py
```

### Strands Agents Quick Demo

Run a standalone Strands Agent (uses fallback if SDK/auth not available):
```bash
python agent_demo.py
```

Ask a custom question:
```bash
python -c "from agent_demo import Agent, main"
```

If you have an API key/environment for Strands Agents set `STRANDS_API_KEY` and re-run.

## 📋 Sample Usage

### Via Bedrock Agent (Natural Language)
```
"Analyze the sustainability of my supply chain with 5 suppliers, 
10 transportation routes, and 20 inventory items. Focus on carbon 
footprint reduction and waste minimization."
```

### Via API Endpoint (with Authentication)
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/sustainability/analyze \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: strands_api_key_ai_hackathon" \
  -d '{
    "supply_chain_data": {
      "suppliers": [...],
      "routes": [...], 
      "inventory": [...]
    }
  }'
```

### Via Bedrock Agent Chat
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5001/bedrock/agent/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: strands_api_key_ai_hackathon" \
  -d '{
    "message": "Analyze sustainability for my supply chain"
  }'
```

## 🧪 Sample Test Prompts

### For Bedrock Agent Testing:

1. **Basic Analysis**
   ```
   "Please analyze my supply chain sustainability. I have 3 suppliers: 
   EcoTech (carbon footprint: 30 tons, ISO14001 certified), 
   GreenSupply (carbon footprint: 45 tons, no certifications), 
   and SustainableCorp (carbon footprint: 20 tons, FSC + ISO14001 certified)."
   ```

2. **Route Optimization**
   ```
   "Optimize my transportation routes for emissions. I have a 200km truck route 
   from Factory A to Warehouse B, and an 800km truck route from Supplier C to Factory A. 
   What are the best alternatives?"
   ```

3. **Inventory Waste Analysis**
   ```
   "Help reduce waste in my inventory. I have Widget A (500 units, 100/month demand, 
   180 days shelf life) and Component B (1200 units, 150/month demand, 365 days shelf life)."
   ```

4. **Complete Analysis**
   ```
   "Run a complete sustainability analysis on my supply chain including 
   supplier assessment, route optimization, inventory waste reduction, 
   and overall carbon footprint calculation."
   ```

## 📊 Output Examples

### Sustainability Score Breakdown
```json
{
  "overall_sustainability_score": 78.5,
  "sustainability_grade": "B",
  "total_carbon_footprint": 245.8,
  "footprint_breakdown": {
    "sourcing": 180.2,
    "logistics": 45.6, 
    "inventory_waste": 8.5,
    "operations": 11.5
  }
}
```

### Top Recommendations
```json
{
  "top_recommendations": [
    "Switch to rail transport for routes over 500km",
    "Implement supplier sustainability training program",
    "Reduce order quantity for Widget A by 30%",
    "Request carbon reduction plan from high-footprint suppliers"
  ]
}
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### AWS Resources Required
- **Bedrock Agent**: `sustainability-supply-chain-optimizer`
- **Lambda Function**: `sustainability-agents-orchestrator`
- **IAM Roles**: Bedrock execution role with Lambda invoke permissions

### Environment Variables
```bash
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=your-account-id
BEDROCK_AGENT_ID=your-agent-id
STRANDS_API_KEY=your-strands-api-key
BEDROCK_API_KEY=strands_api_key_ai_hackathon
USE_AWS_AGENTCORE=0
AGENTCORE_PROJECT_NAME=supply-chain-optimizer
AGENTCORE_REGION=us-east-1
AGENTCORE_WORKFLOW_ID=
```

## 📈 Key Features

### ✅ **Phase 1: Foundation**
- **MCP Server**: Model Context Protocol for agent communication
- **Data Generator Agent**: Creates 20 suppliers, 30 routes, 15 products
- **Base Agent Pattern**: Abstract class foundation for all agents
- **Strands Integration**: AI-powered company name generation

### ✅ **Phase 2 Step 1: Individual Agents**
- **Sourcing Agent**: Supplier sustainability scoring, certifications, risk assessment
- **Logistics Agent**: Multi-modal transport optimization, emission calculations
- **Inventory Agent**: Waste analysis, expiry risk, stock optimization
- **Carbon Accounting Agent**: Complete footprint aggregation, benchmarking

### ✅ **Phase 2 Step 2: Enhanced Orchestration**
- **Agent Communication Flow**: Sequential execution with context sharing
- **Context Management**: Shared data store for cross-agent insights
- **Error Handling & Retry**: Resilient execution with automatic recovery
- **Result Validation**: Data flow integrity checks and validation
- **Execution Monitoring**: Detailed timing and performance metrics

### ✅ **Strands SDK Integration**
- **Realistic Data Generation**: AI-powered company names and scenarios
- **Enhanced Analysis**: Strands reasoning for all sustainability decisions
- **Natural Language**: Human-readable explanations and insights
- **Fallback Mode**: Works with or without Strands SDK

### ✅ **AWS Cloud Integration**
### ☁️ Optional: AWS AgentCore Integration (Scaffolding)
If you enable `USE_AWS_AGENTCORE=1` and have the (future) AgentCore SDK installed, the system will:
- Register local agents as callable remote tools
- Attempt to execute the workflow through AgentCore before local fallback
- Attach `agentcore_used` + execution `trace` to `orchestration_metadata`

File reference: `orchestration/agentcore_adapter.py`
- **Bedrock Agents**: Claude 3 Sonnet for AI capabilities
- **Lambda Functions**: Serverless agent orchestration
- **S3 & Glue**: CSV data ingestion and cataloging
- **API Gateway**: RESTful endpoints for external access

## 🧪 Testing

### Run All Tests
```bash
# Test individual agents
python test_agents.py

# Test Strands SDK integration
python test_strands_integration.py

# Test enhanced orchestration (Phase 2 Step 2)
python test_orchestration.py

# Test complete integration
python test_integration.py

# Test API endpoints with authentication
python test_api.py

# Test Bedrock authentication
python test_bedrock_auth.py

# Test Bedrock integration
python deploy_agents_to_bedrock.py
```

### Phase 2 Step 2: Agent Orchestration Features
- **Context Passing**: Agents share results and context between executions
- **Error Handling**: Graceful failure handling with fallback mechanisms
- **Retry Logic**: Automatic retry for failed agent executions
- **Flow Control**: Sequential execution with dependency management
- **Result Aggregation**: Comprehensive result compilation with metadata

### API Endpoints
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /api/sustainability/test` - Test with sample data
- `POST /api/sustainability/analyze` - Full analysis

## 📝 Data Format

### Input Schema
```json
{
  "suppliers": [
    {
      "id": "SUP001",
      "name": "Supplier Name", 
      "carbon_footprint": 25,
      "certifications": ["ISO14001"],
      "renewable_energy_percent": 60
    }
  ],
  "routes": [
    {
      "id": "RT001",
      "origin": "Location A",
      "destination": "Location B", 
      "distance_km": 250,
      "transport_mode": "truck"
    }
  ],
  "inventory": [
    {
      "id": "PRD001",
      "name": "Product Name",
      "current_stock": 500,
      "monthly_demand": 100,
      "shelf_life_days": 180
    }
  ]
}
```

## 🎯 Business Impact

### **Quantified Benefits:**
- **30-40%** emission reduction through AI-powered route optimization
- **20-60%** waste reduction via intelligent inventory management
- **15-25%** supplier sustainability score improvement
- **Real-time** carbon footprint tracking and benchmarking

### **Technology Integration:**
- **Strands AI**: Enhanced decision-making across all agents
- **AWS Cloud**: Scalable, serverless architecture
- **MCP Protocol**: Standardized agent communication
- **Phase-based**: Modular development and deployment

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

### **Phase 3: Interface & Demo (Next)**
- Web dashboard with sustainability metrics
- Real-time charts and visualizations
- QR code deployment for demo access

### **Advanced Features:**
- Real-time ERP system integration
- Machine learning demand forecasting
- Blockchain supply chain transparency
- IoT sensor monitoring
- Mobile app for field operations

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:
1. Check the test files for usage examples
2. Review AWS Bedrock Agent logs
3. Validate input data format
4. Ensure proper AWS permissions

---

**Built for AI Hackathon - Sustainable Supply Chain Optimization**
